README.md, before:

TomKat State of the Ranch Data Pages
====================================

[Point Blue Conservation Science](http://www.pointblue.org) has
partnered with [TomKat Ranch](https://tomkatranch.org) to collect many
different types of data reflecting changing conditions on the ranch.
Every year, we summarize these data and provide Ranch staff with an
update. The update including data through fall 2020 is currently
underway. This project contains the data and code for producing these
data summaries as individual web pages.

### CURRENT STATUS:

All data are currently viewable at
[https://pointblue.github.io/TomKat](https://pointblue.github.io/TomKat/)
and on the [TomKat Ranch
website](https://tomkatranch.org/what-we-do/regenerative-ranching/management-data/#ranch-data-project)

Updates including data through fall 2020 are currently in progress.

### CHANGES IN 2018:

#### Overall

-   Major structural overhaul to work with new TomKat website, with each
    display piece produced independently  
-   Hosted on Github
-   Style/formatting matched to new TomKat Ranch website
-   Added text describing SMART goals on each page
-   **Future wishlist:** Add more context linking SMART goals to
    observations to date

#### Weather

-   All local weather station data included through December 17, 2018
-   Regional drought index data included through November 2018
-   Switch from dygraphs to plotly graphics

#### Soil

-   2018 soil sampling data replaces 2015 data as current soil metrics
    map
-   Soil metrics legend changed to show actual values rather than just
    high/low
-   Added change map showing differences between 2015 and 2018
-   Added map showing soil microbial data
-   Marked soil sampling points where compost was added
-   Made terrain easier to see
-   **TO DO:** Add map showing soil fungal data
-   **Future wishlist:** Add soil nutrients change map

#### Vegetation

-   2018 vegetation survey data replaces previous data as current veg
    map
-   Vegetation change map recalculated as a change in mean values
    between two sets of years (2012-14 and 2016-18) and legend updated
    to highlight large changes relative to 2012-14 values
-   Vegetation trends updated through 2018 and switched from dygraphs to
    plotly graphics
-   Added map of herbaceous vegetation diversity
-   **Future wishlist:** Add links to pasture plants guide and species
    lists

#### Water

-   All stream gauge data included through August 16, 2018
-   Switch from dygraphs to plotly graphics
-   **Future wishlist:** Add info about steelhead, water quality data

#### Birds

-   Focal species abundance map recalculated to include all point count
    data through 2018
-   Species richness estimates map recalculated to include all point
    count data through 2018
-   Annual focal species abundance trend and grassland vs riparian
    species richness trends recalculated to include all point count data
    through 2018
-   Switched trend graphs from dygraphs to plotly graphics
-   **Future wishlist:** Add links to wildlife/bird checklists; add
    photos; add info about banding and Christmas Bird Count surveys;
    Compare bird densities to management data (difficult with annual
    sampling effort)

#### Management

-   2017-18 data replaces older management data, now in pastures aligned
    with vegetation survey data
-   Summary statistics (ADA and total grazing days) recalculated with
    new data
-   **Future wishlist:** Add map of ranch trials, mowing history,
    grazing chart

Commit message:

update status for weather page

README.md, after:

TomKat State of the Ranch Data Pages
====================================

[Point Blue Conservation Science](http://www.pointblue.org) has
partnered with [TomKat Ranch](https://tomkatranch.org) to collect many
different types of data reflecting changing conditions on the ranch.
Every year, we summarize these data and provide Ranch staff with an
update. The update including data through fall 2020 is currently
underway. This project contains the data and code for producing these
data summaries as individual web pages.

### CURRENT STATUS:

All data are currently viewable at
[https://pointblue.github.io/TomKat](https://pointblue.github.io/TomKat/)
and on the [TomKat Ranch
website](https://tomkatranch.org/what-we-do/regenerative-ranching/management-data/#ranch-data-project)

Updates including data through fall 2020 are currently in progress.

### CHANGES IN 2020:

-   Updates to bird, weather, and stream flow data through Sept 2020.
-   Introduce drake workflow for more reproducible & automated updating
    of these 3 pages.
-   Move web pages and widgets to docs directory and out of root.

### CHANGES IN 2018:

#### Overall

-   Major structural overhaul to work with new TomKat website, with each
    display piece produced independently  
-   Hosted on Github
-   Style/formatting matched to new TomKat Ranch website
-   Added text describing SMART goals on each page
-   **Future wishlist:** Add more context linking SMART goals to
    observations to date

#### Weather

-   All local weather station data included through December 17, 2018
-   Regional drought index data included through November 2018
-   Switch from dygraphs to plotly graphics

#### Soil

-   2018 soil sampling data replaces 2015 data as current soil metrics
    map
-   Soil metrics legend changed to show actual values rather than just
    high/low
-   Added change map showing differences between 2015 and 2018
-   Added map showing soil microbial data
-   Marked soil sampling points where compost was added
-   Made terrain easier to see
-   **TO DO:** Add map showing soil fungal data
-   **Future wishlist:** Add soil nutrients change map

#### Vegetation

-   2018 vegetation survey data replaces previous data as current veg
    map
-   Vegetation change map recalculated as a change in mean values
    between two sets of years (2012-14 and 2016-18) and legend updated
    to highlight large changes relative to 2012-14 values
-   Vegetation trends updated through 2018 and switched from dygraphs to
    plotly graphics
-   Added map of herbaceous vegetation diversity
-   **Future wishlist:** Add links to pasture plants guide and species
    lists

#### Water

-   All stream gauge data included through August 16, 2018
-   Switch from dygraphs to plotly graphics
-   **Future wishlist:** Add info about steelhead, water quality data

#### Birds

-   Focal species abundance map recalculated to include all point count
    data through 2018
-   Species richness estimates map recalculated to include all point
    count data through 2018
-   Annual focal species abundance trend and grassland vs riparian
    species richness trends recalculated to include all point count data
    through 2018
-   Switched trend graphs from dygraphs to plotly graphics
-   **Future wishlist:** Add links to wildlife/bird checklists; add
    photos; add info about banding and Christmas Bird Count surveys;
    Compare bird densities to management data (difficult with annual
    sampling effort)

#### Management

-   2017-18 data replaces older management data, now in pastures aligned
    with vegetation survey data
-   Summary statistics (ADA and total grazing days) recalculated with
    new data
-   **Future wishlist:** Add map of ranch trials, mowing history,
    grazing chart
